# Unique Identifiers

There is a single top-level `uids` element on all Objects.
This element is a map from `scope` to `id` with a maximum of 8 total elements.
Citrine reserves one `scope` and will not allow a value to be set: "ID".
This reserved element is referred to as the Citrine ID, and will always point to a version 4 random UUID generated by the Citrine Platform.
The remaining elements of the map are referred to as "alternative identifiers" or "customer identifiers".
The `id` component of customer identifiers need not be globally unique on its own, but the pair of (`scope`, `id`) must be unique.
Equivalently, every alternative uid must be unique within its designated scope.

Each `scope`, `id` pair can be associated with exactly one object. 
Scopes should be interpreted as case-insensitive, e.g., `MyId` and `MYID` refer to the same scope.

---
## Citrine ID

The unique identifier for all Objects on the platform

Scope | Value type | Description
------|------------|------------
`ID`  | String     | string representation of a random Version 4 UUID

##### Constraints

Field name | Relationship | Description
-----------|:------------:|------------
len(`id`)  | ==           | 36
`id`       | parses to    | Version 4 Random UUID

##### Example

```javascript
{
    "uids" : {
        "id" : "f36099b9-2ca1-4ff7-afd2-dd226dc79e66"
    }
}
```

---
## Alternative IDs

A scope and identifier that, together, form an alternative unique identifier for an object platform-wide.

Field name | Value type | Description
-----------|------------|------------
`uids`     | Map[String, String] | a map from `scope` to `id`

##### Constraints

Field name  | Relationship | Description
------------|:------------:|------------
len(`uids`) |      <=      | 8
len(`scope`)|      <=      | 128, UTF-8 encoded
len(`id`)   |      <=      | 512, UTF-8 encoded
`scope`     |              | cannot include `::`


##### Example

```javascript
{
    "uids": {
        "NIST-SRM" : "141e"
    }
}
```

##### Invalid Example
This scope field is not allowed by the Citrine Platform:

```javascript
{
    "uids": {
        "NIST::SRM" : "141e"
    }
}

```

---

## LinkByUID

Any nested object with a unique identifier can be replaced by a LinkByUID object.

In general, the SDK for the data model implementation should handle translating nested structures into LinkByUID objects at write time--users of the SDK should only need to specify a LinkByUID object under very specific circumstances.

Field name | Value type | Description
-----------|------------|------------
`type`     | String     | "link\_by\_uid"
`scope`    | String     | The scope of the unique identifier, e.g., "ID" for the Citrine ID
`id`       | String     | The value of the identifier within that scope, e.g., a UUID4 for the Citrine ID

##### Example

```javascript
{
    "type" : "link_by_uid",
    "scope" : "id",
    "id"    : "8ee36a2e-66ce-4106-81c9-2b73cc0c6cb9"
}

{
    "type" : "link_by_uid",
    "scope" : "NIST-SRM",
    "id"    : "141e"
}
```

