# Glossary

### Attribute
A characteristic of a material, process, or measurement. Attributes can be a GEMD property, condition, or parameter and contain a value.

### Attribute Template
Attribute templates define a domain concept (e.g. density, yield strength), and include bounds to define acceptable values for a given attribute.

### Bounds
Bounds are used in object and attribute templates. Object templates define the widest bounds, and attribute templates bounds further constrain values to a tighter range or set.  Bounds may be real or categorical.

### Categorical Bounds
Bounds that are defined by a list of categories.

### Condition Attribute
Environmental variables (typically measured) that may affect a process or measurement, such as temperature or pressure.

### Data Object
GEMD materials, processes, measurements, and ingredients. Data objects along with attributes are linked to form a complete description of a final material and how it was created.

### GEMD
Graphical Expression of Materials Data, an open source format for storing materials data.

### Ingredient Object
A  data object that annotates a material with information related to its usage in a process. Ingredient objects are used define how much of a material is used in a new process. Note that 'ingredient' and 'material' object definitions are not interchangeable.

### Material Object
GEMD data object that describes a physical substance that is generated by a process and is characterized by its properties. GEMD does not allow material objects to exist in isolation, since fully describing a material data point requires, at minimum, identifying how the material was procured.  

### Material Run
An actual instance of a material.

### Material Spec
Material spec objects are used to integrate information from external references, typically a data sheet. Reference information
is optionally encoded via PropertyAndCondition attributes. 

### Material Template
Define how to validate any PropertyAndConditions attributes, if they exist on a linked material spec. 

### Measurement Object
A data object used to describe an operation that measures or characterizes properties of a material.

### Measurement Run
A recorded measurement for a specific material run object.

### Measurement Spec
Defines the intent for how a measurement should be performed, including any parameters and conditions. 

### Measurement Template
Defines the widest set of allowable bounds for associated conditions, parameters and properties. 

### Nominal Real Value
A value type in which the value is recorded as a specific number, with no information about the uncertainty of that number.

### Object Template
Object Templates define a domain concept for a process, material or measurement. Object templates compose bounds from attribute templates into constraints that define valid ranges.

### Parameter Attribute
Describes the settings of a tool in a process or measurement object. Parameters are non-environmental variables (typically specified and controlled) that may affect a process or measurement.

### PIF
Portable Information Format, a precursor to GEMD that is no longer in use.

### Process Object
GEMD data object that describes an operation to generate an output material from inputs.

### Process Run
A recorded run of a process, which may include parameters that are controlled and/or measured.

### Process Spec
Defines the intent for how a process should work, including any expected parameters and conditions. 

### Process Template
Process templates are used to define constraints for the names and labels of ingredients. They may link conditions and parameters.

### Property Attribute
Describes a measured or calculated property of a material object. 

###  PropertyAndConditions Attribute
Known (unmeasured) properties of a Material Spec, with specified conditions. These usually come from a technical spec sheet or other external reference.

### Real Bounds
Bounds defined by a range of finite real values and a unit.

### State
Template, spec and run. Data objects are created in a state, representing generalization (template), intent (spec), and actual result (run).

### Tag
Tags are used to categorize object templates.

### Uniform Real Value
A value type in which the value is recorded as a range, with a lower bound and an upper bound, to represent the uncertainty of the measurement.


